#summary Ideas for the background story of the game
#labels Phase-Design

= Introduction =

Here we will describe some ideas on the background story of the game. The point is to create a background for the game to motivate playing and give some initial points for story-making. The main challenge will be presenting this story in-game, with minimum use of narrators or cut scenes.

= The story =

_Dragons were know to be creatures of enormous wisdom. But this was not true from the beginning of their existence. As all the live beings in this universe they have to learn how to survive._
= =
_ The first dragons were destructive creatures eating everything they could without any constraint. But soon they realized food was scarce and not enough for all of them. They ate all kind of animals and plants, and their hunger lead to the extinction of many species. Some of the oldest dragons realized their usual behavior was taking them to an inevitable oblivion, and so they concluded something needed to be done. The dragons were never good at building and they did not like tools except for the most rudimentary ones. And so they could not breed or cultivate their food. They were in love with the hunting life, and their freedom. Their situation looked really bad. The animals they ate where so unintelligent and easy to hunt that all the possible measures to be taken implied effort to the dragons, and the younger ones did not appreciate rules over they feeding behavior. Organizing their hunting habits was not a feasible solutions as the things were on those ages._
= = 
_This changed the day when dragons from the Wide-Lands described an animal that was particularly difficult to hunt and that showed to be keen on adapting to the young dragon's hunting behavior. The older dragons envisioned in this animals a possible solution for the desperate situations they were facing. An animal that could survive and reproduce in spite the dragons' constant hostilities, represented an infinite source of food._
_Ancient Dragons from all lands were sent to observe this particular animals and they concluded these creatures were what the Dragons had been waiting for all this ages._
_A plan was set up. Task groups from all lands should go and hunt the creatures in such a way that these animals would decide to emigrate to other places of the world. It took lots of year but finally groups of this creatures departed from the main crowd and starting they journey to more peaceful lands. The groups of dragons sent to achieve this goal were called shepherds and their were committed to their flocks. Their work was to assure the flock to grow, reproduce in a place and when the population was big enough create a new exodus._
= =
_Food was spreading all around the world and a new era of prosperity was beginning..._

= What we can do with this? =

I think these ideas are a good to start. Basically the player is one of these shepherds and he/she has to eat from their flock, but also must take care of the survival and reproduction. The tool of the player is the interaction with the flock through hunting and terror but eventually more complex kind of interactions could appear.
The animals will evolve and get more and more intelligent and will try to get rid of the dragon (or adore it, or any solution you can imagine). 
The Dragons world could be very complex and given that they have a clan organization (or something like that, they are intelligent but wild animals, they do not like social systems). We can have attacking dragons, we can have territories to cross with the flock. We can have others predators apart from the dragons...etc...etc..

Read the [GameOutline game outline] to learn how will this story be laid out. 